 Mongo and Mongoose
 

What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
f your data is highly structured and associations among the program entities are clearly defined (for instance, if you are developing a point of sale system where you need to store customer orders and product records), conventional SQL based databases are the best fit.

Give a real world example.

1. MySQL Community Edition
MySQL database is very popular open-source database. It is generally been stacked with apache and PHP, although it can be also stacked with nginx and server side javascripting using Node js.


What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
Nosql database selection criteria
Choose NoSQL if you have or need:
Semi-structured or Unstructured data / flexible schema.
Limited pre-defined access paths and query patterns.
No complex queries, stored procedures, or views.
High velocity transactions.
Large volume of data (in Terabyte range) requiring quick and cheap scalability.

Give a real world example.
1. MongoDB
Mongodb is one of the most popular document based NoSQL database as it stores data in JSON like documents. It is non-relational database with dynamic schema.


Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
For the type of data to be stored: SQL databases are not best fit for hierarchical data storage. But, NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data.


Which type of database is best for scalability?


For scalability: In most typical situations, SQL databases are vertically scalable. You can manage increasing load by increasing the CPU, RAM, SSD, etc, on a single server. On the other hand, NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable. You can just add few more servers easily in your NoSQL database infrastructure to handle the large traffic.






What does SQL stand for?
Structured Query Language


What is a realational database?
A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. ... The columns of the table hold attributes of the data, and each record usually has a value for each attribute, making it easy to establish the relationships among data points.


What type of structure does a relational database work with?
The relational model means that the logical data structures—the data tables, views, and indexes—are separate from the physical storage structures. This separation means that database administrators can manage physical data storage without affecting access to that data as a logical structure.


What is a ‘schema’?
A schema is a cognitive framework or concept that helps organize and interpret information. Schemas can be useful because they allow us to take shortcuts in interpreting the vast amount of information that is available in our environment.

What is a NoSQL database?
NoSQL databases store data in documents rather than relational tables. Accordingly, we classify them as "not only SQL" and subdivide them by a variety of flexible data models. Types of NoSQL databases include pure document databases, key-value stores, wide-column databases, and graph databases.

Howo does it work?
NoSQL is an approach to databases that represents a shift away from traditional relational database management systems (RDBMS). ... Relational databases rely on tables, columns, rows, or schemas to organize and retrieve data. In contrast, NoSQL databases do not rely on these structures and use more flexible data models.


What is inside of a Mongo database?
Databases, collections, documents are important parts of the MongoDB without them you are not able to store data on the MongoDB server. A Database contains a collection, and a collection contains documents and the documents contain data, they are related to each other.


Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
While MongoDB is more flexible and ensures high and diverse data availability, a SQL Database operates with the ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability) properties and ensures greater reliability of transactions.

What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
Disadvantages. NoSQL databases don't have the reliability functions which Relational Databases have (basically don't support ACID). This also means that NoSQL databases offer consistency in performance and scalability
